Release 2.2 (#6766)
antrea-io/antrea: CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-2.2.md

# Changelog 2.2

## 2.2.0 - 2024-10-30

### Added

- Add a new feature `PacketCapture` to allow users to capture live traffic and upload captured packets to a specified location:
  - Add PacketCapture API. ([#6257](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6257), [@hangyan])
  - Add PacketCapture data path support. ([#6756](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6756), [@hangyan])
  - Refer to [this document](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/release-2.2/docs/packetcapture-guide.md) for more information about this feature.
- Add a few new antctl sub-commands for the `BGPPolicy` feature to improve usability:
  -  `antctl get bgppolicy` to get the effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. ([#6646](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6646), [@Atish-iaf])
  -  `antctl get bgppeers` to print the current status of all BGP peers of the effective BGPPolicy applied on the local Node. ([#6689](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6689) [#6755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6755), [@Atish-iaf])

>   -  `antctl get bgproutes` to print the advertised BGP routes on the local Node. ([#6734](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6734), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer: to print the BGP routes advertised from the local Node

- Add `antctl-darwin-arm64` to Antrea release assets. ([#6640](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6640), [@antoninbas])
- Add documentation for the `NodeLatencyMonitor` feature. ([#6561](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6561), [@antoninbas])

### Changed

- Uniform BGP router ID selection for IPv4 and IPv6 for the `BGPPolicy` feature. ([#6605](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6605), [@Atish-iaf])
- Use the default protocol / port when the destination is a Service in Traceflow. ([#6601](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6601), [@Atish-iaf])
- Add validations for Antrea Node NetworkPolicy to fail invalid configurations. ([#6613](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6613), [@Atish-iaf])
- More robust system Tier creation / update for Antrea-native policies. ([#6696](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6696), [@antoninbas])
- Handle `ExternalIPPool` range changes in Egress controller. ([#6685](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6685), [@antoninbas])
- Close connection to IPFIX collector explicitly on Stop for `FlowAggregator`. ([#6635](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6635), [@antoninbas])

> - Support `--random-fully` for iptables SNAT / MASQUERADE rules. ([#6602](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6602), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer: This is a new feature, with a new configuration switch, so should be in `Added`

Author: Moved

- Unify the checker image and make it configurable when running `antctl check cluster`. ([#6579](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6579), [@tnqn])

> - Update the `Finalizer` of `ResourceExport` to be domain-qualified strings. ([#6742](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6742), [@Dyanngg])

Reviewer: > to be a domain-qualified string

I think there is only one Finalizer in that case?

Author: Yes, updated.

- Upgrade Ubuntu to 24.04 (Noble). ([#6575](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6575), [@antoninbas])
- Upgrade Go to 1.23. ([#6647](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6647), [@antoninbas])
- Upgrade Suricata to 7.0. ([#6589](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6589), [@antoninbas])

### Fixed

> - Match `dstIP` in `ClassifierTable` to fix a potential source MAC and IP mismatched issue on Windows when the `promiscuous` mode is enabled. ([#6528](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6528), [@XinShuYang])

Reviewer: when `promiscuous` mode is enabled

no _the_

- Cache TTLs for individual IP addresses in DNS responses to avoid evicting valid IPs before they are expired. ([#6732](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6732), [@hkiiita])
- Fix an issue with ipset or iptables chain removal during Antrea Node NetworkPolicy updates or deletions. ([#6707](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6707), [@hongliangl])
- Fix an issue with logging support for L7 NetworkPolicy causing the wrong packet to be logged by Suricata for the default reject rule. From now on, `enableLogging` only controls L4 audit logging and we unconditionally log the packet data for all Suricata alert events. ([#6651](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6651), [@qiyueyao])
- Fix `NetworkPolicy` related antctl commands including `antctl get networkpolicy` and `antctl get ovsflows`. ([#6487](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6487), [@Dyanngg])
- Fix the template ID not existing error in IPFIX exporter for `FlowAggregator`. ([#6630](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6630), [@antoninbas])

> - Fix an antrea-agent crash issue when the host interface has been already attached to OVS bridge for `SecondaryNetwork`. ([#6666](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6666), [@xliuxu])

Reviewer: when the host interface is already attached to the OVS bridge

- Delay the initialization of ARP / NDP responders to fix the `ServiceExternalIP` feature when `SecondaryNetwork` is enabled. ([#6700](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6700), [@xliuxu])
- Run the `IPPool` webhook handler when `SecondaryNetwork` is enabled. ([#6691](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6691), [@luolanzone])

> - Fix the slice init length issue for `NetworkPolicy` controller. ([#6715](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6715), [@cuishuang])

Reviewer: Fix a slice init length issue

> - Improve memory copying logic to avoid a potential memory fault issue on Windows. ([#6664](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6664) [#6673](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6673), [@XinShuYang] [@tnqn])

Reviewer: remove "issue"

- Document a workaround for using `EgressSeparateSubnet` feature on OpenShift. ([#6622](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6622), [@luolanzone])

> - Clean up stale resources when `antctl check cluster` failed. ([#6597](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6597), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer: s/failed/fails

- Fix hint annotation implementation in `AntreaProxy`. ([#6607](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6607), [@hongliangl])

> - Add initialization of `creationTimestamp` when creating instances of `NodeLatencyStats` to fix a null `creationTimestamp` issue. ([#6574](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6574), [@hkiiita])

Reviewer: remove "to fix a ..."

Author: I refined this sentence to the following:
```
Initialize `creationTimestamp` when creating instances of `NodeLatencyStats` to prevent a null `creationTimestamp` issue
```

# Changelog 2.2

## 2.2.0 - 2024-10-30

### Added

- Add a new feature `PacketCapture` to allow users to capture live traffic and upload captured packets to a specified location:
  - Add PacketCapture API. ([#6257](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6257), [@hangyan])
  - Add PacketCapture data path support. ([#6756](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6756), [@hangyan])
  - Refer to [this document](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/release-2.2/docs/packetcapture-guide.md) for more information about this feature.

> - Add a few new antctl sub-commands for `BGPPolicy` feature to improve usability:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add a few new antctl sub-commands for feature `BGPPolicy` to improve usability:
```

Reviewer 3: I feel "the `BGPPolicy` feature" reads better.

Reviewer: I agree

>   -  `antctl get bgppolicy` to get effective BGP policy applied on the Node. ([#6646](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6646), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -  `antctl get bgppolicy` to get effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. ([#6646](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6646), [@Atish-iaf])
```

>   -  `antctl get bgppolicy` to get effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. ([#6646](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6646), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 3: the effective BGPPolicy

>   -  `antctl get bgppeers` to print current status of all BGP peers of effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. ([#6689](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6689) [#6755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6755), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  -  `antctl get bgppeers` to print current status of all BGP peers of effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. It also supports filtering by IP version, either IPv4 or IPv6 peers.([#6689](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6689) [#6755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6755), [@Atish-iaf])
```

Author: agree to antonin, it's unnecessary to provide the details in the release log. I will keep this the same as before.

>   -  `antctl get bgppeers` to print current status of all BGP peers of effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. ([#6689](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6689) [#6755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6755), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -  `antctl get bgppeers` to print current status of all BGP peers of effective BGP policy applied on the local Node. ([#6689](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6689) [#6755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6755), [@Atish-iaf])
```

Reviewer 3: "the current status of all BGP peers of the effective BGPPolicy on the local Node". Or maybe we can remove "on the local Node" to make it shorter.

Author: Updated, but keep `on the local Node` for all BGP command PR to keep consistent.

>   -  `antctl get bgproutes` to print the advertised BGP routes. ([#6734](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6734), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  -  `antctl get bgproutes` to print the advertised BGP routes on the local Node. ([#6734](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6734), [@Atish-iaf])
```

Reviewer 4: `antctl get bgproutes` is used to display the BGP routes advertised by the local Node.

Author: Update.

> - Add an `except` field support for Antrea-native `ipBlock` to allow users to exclude certain CIDRs from the `ipBlock.cidr`. ([#6658](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6658) [#6677](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6677), [@Dyanngg])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add an `except` field support for Antrea-native NetworkPolicy field `ipBlock` to allow users to exclude certain CIDRs from the `ipBlock.cidr`. ([#6658](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6658) [#6677](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6677), [@Dyanngg])
```

Reviewer 3: Add an `except` field to the Antrea-native policy field `ipBlock`

from the `ipBlock.cidr` -> from `ipBlock.cidr`

> - Add a new `templateRefreshTimeout` configuration for `FlowAggregator` to define template retransmission interval when using the UDP protocol to export records. ([#6699](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6699), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer 3: the template retransmission interval

> - Add `EnableLogging` and `LogLabel` supports for `NodeNetworkPolicy`. ([#6626](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6626), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add `EnableLogging` and `LogLabel` supports for Antrea Node NetworkPolicy. ([#6626](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6626), [@hongliangl])
```

Reviewer 3: supports -> support

> - Add `ServiceTrafficDistribution` feature support in Antrea Proxy to enables Traffic Distribution for Services. ([#6604](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6604), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add feature `ServiceTrafficDistribution` support in Antrea Proxy to enables Traffic Distribution for Services. ([#6604](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6604), [@hongliangl])
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe remove one of "feature" and "support"

Reviewer 3: to enables -> that enables

### Changed

- Uniform BGP router ID selection for IPv4 and IPv6. ([#6605](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6605), [@Atish-iaf])
- Use the default protocol / port when the destination is a Service in Antrea Traceflows. ([#6601](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6601), [@Atish-iaf])

> - Add a new `templateRefreshTimeout` configuration for `FlowAggregator` to define template retransmission interval when using the UDP protocol to export records. ([#6699](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6699), [@antoninbas])

Author: Moved.

> - Add documentation for `NodeLatencyMonitor` feature. ([#6561](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6561), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add documentation for feature `NodeLatencyMonitor`. ([#6561](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6561), [@antoninbas])
```

> - Uniform BGP router ID selection for IPv4 and IPv6. ([#6605](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6605), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Uniform BGP router ID selection for IPv4 and IPv6 for feature `BGPPolicy`. ([#6605](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6605), [@Atish-iaf])
```

> - Use the default protocol / port when the destination is a Service in Antrea Traceflows. ([#6601](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6601), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the default protocol / port when the destination is a Service in Traceflow. ([#6601](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6601), [@Atish-iaf])
```

> - Add validations for `NodeNetworkPolicy` to fail invalid configs. ([#6613](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6613), [@Atish-iaf])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add validations for Antrea Node NetworkPolicy to fail invalid configs. ([#6613](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6613), [@Atish-iaf])
```

Reviewer 3: configs -> configurations

> - More robust system Tier creation / update. ([#6696](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6696), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer 3: Add "for Antrea-native policies".

- Handle `ExternalIPPool` range changes in Egress controller. ([#6685](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6685), [@antoninbas])
- Close connection to IPFIX collector explicitly on Stop for `FlowAggregator`. ([#6635](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6635), [@antoninbas])
- Support `--random-fully` for iptables SNAT / MASQUERADE rules. ([#6602](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6602), [@antoninbas])

> - Unify the checker image and make it configurable when running `antctl check cluster` ([#6579](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6579) , [@tnqn])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Unify the checker image and make it configurable when running `antctl check cluster`. ([#6579](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6579) , [@tnqn])
```

> - Update the `Finalizer` of `ResourceExport` to be domain-qualified string. ([#6742](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6742), [@Dyanngg])

Reviewer 3: string -> strings

> - Avoid error log when unmarshalling config for Antrea Multi-cluster controller. ([#6744](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6744), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer 3: controller -> Controller

Reviewer 3: This one can be moved to "Fixed"?

Author: Moved

- Upgrade Ubuntu to 24.04 (Noble). ([#6575](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6575), [@antoninbas])
- Upgrade Go to 1.23. ([#6647](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6647), [@antoninbas])
- Upgrade Suricata to 7.0. ([#6589](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6589), [@antoninbas])

### Fixed

- Match `dstIP` in `ClassifierTable` to fix a potential source MAC and IP mismatched issue on Windows when the `promiscuous` mode is enabled. ([#6528](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6528), [@XinShuYang])
- Fix the checker image tag when running `antctl check cluster` with a released `antctl` binary. ([#6565](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6565), [@tnqn])

> - Use the same MTU as uplink for bridge port to fix a potential MTU mismatch issue when the traffic mode is changed. ([#6577](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6577), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer 3: port -> ports

> - Cache TTLs for individual IP addresses in DNS responses to avoid evicting valid IPs before they are expired. ([#6732](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6732), [@hkiiita])

Reviewer 3: @antoninbas - my bad to delete your comment here by mistake. I think you were asking prioritizing this fix inc. reviews to get it in 2.2. Do not know how to restore the original comment.

Reviewer: yes I was asking @hkiiita to prioritize work on this patch, and @tnqn @Dyanngg to prioritize its review

> - Fix an issue with ipset or iptables chain removal during `NodeNetworkPolicy` updates or deletions. ([#6707](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6707), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue with ipset or iptables chain removal during Antrea Node NetworkPolicy updates or deletions. ([#6707](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6707), [@hongliangl])
```

> - Fix an issue with logging support for L7 NetworkPolicy causing the wrong packet to be logged by Suricata for the default reject rule; from now on `enableLogging` only controls L4 audit logging and we unconditionally log the packet data for all Suricata alert events. ([#6651](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6651), [@qiyueyao])

Reviewer 3: ; from now on -> . From now on,

- Fix `NetworkPolicy` related antctl commands including `antctl get networkpolicy` and `antctl get ovsflows`. ([#6487](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6487), [@Dyanngg])
- Fix the template ID not existing error in IPFIX exporter for `FlowAggregator`. ([#6630](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6630), [@antoninbas])

> - Fix an agent crash issue if the host interface is already attached to OVS bridge for `SecondaryNetwork`. ([#6666](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6666), [@xliuxu])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix an antrea-agent crash issue when the host interface has been already attached to OVS bridge for `SecondaryNetwork`. ([#6666](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6666), [@xliuxu])
```

- Delay the initialization of ARP / NDP responders to fix the `ServiceExternalIP` feature when `SecondaryNetwork` is enabled. ([#6700](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6700), [@xliuxu])

> - Fix a VM agent crash issue which is caused by a nil pointer exception of the config `SNATFullyRandomPorts`. ([#6748](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6748), [@wenyingd])

Reviewer 3: config -> config option

> - Run `IPPool` webhook handler when `SecondaryNetwork` is enabled. ([#6691](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6691), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 3: the `IPPool` webhook handler

> - Fix slice init length issue for `NetworkPolicy` controller. ([#6715](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6715), [@cuishuang])

Reviewer 3: the slice init..

> - Improve memory copying logic to avoid potential fault memory issue on Windows. ([#6664](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6664) [#6673](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6673), [@XinShuYang] [@tnqn])

Reviewer 3: a potential memory fault issue

> - Resolve a Windows agent crash issue which is caused by a nil pointer exception of the config `egressSNATRandomFully`. ([#6668](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6668), [@XinShuYang])

Reviewer 3: config option

Could we move this one to be together with the `SNATFullyRandomPorts` nil pointer issue?

Reviewer: Technically because the feature itself was introduced in this release, we don't need to mention the 2 corresponding fixes in the release notes, it just creates noise

> Support `--random-fully` for iptables SNAT / MASQUERADE rules.

Author: Removed two corresponding fixes in the release log.

> - Document a workaround for using `EgressSeparateSubnet` feature on OpenShift. ([#6622](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/6622), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 3: a workaround solution

Why this is in "Fixed"?
